Update to 2022: feature detection (#21975)
mdn/content: files/en-us/learn/tools_and_testing/cross_browser_testing/feature_detection/index.md

### CSS

You can write tests for CSS features by testing for the existence of _[element.style.property](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/style)_ (e.g. `paragraph.style.rotate`) in JavaScript.

A classic example might be to test for [Subgrid](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout/Subgrid) support in a browser; for browsers that support the `subgrid` value for a subgrid value for [`grid-template-columns`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/grid-template-columns) and [`grid-template-rows`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/grid-template-rows), we can use subgrid in our layout. For browsers that don't, we could use regular grid that works fine but is not as cool-looking.

> For example, you could include a subgrid stylesheet if the value is supported.

Reviewer: It feels a little like the example that follows this line now isn't connected to it.

Author: I munged the 2 paragraphs together. 

> Using this as an example, we could include a subgrid stylesheet if the value is supported and a regular grid stylesheet if not. To do so, we could include two stylesheets in the head of our HTML file: one for all the styling, and one that implements the default layout if subgrid is not supported:

does that work better?

     conditional.setAttribute('href', 'subgrid-layout.css.css');
   }
   ```

In our conditional statement, we test to see if the{{cssxref("grid-template-columns")}} property supports the `subgrid` value using [`CSS.supports()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSS/supports).

#### @supports

CSS has a native feature detection mechanism: the {{cssxref("@supports")}} at-rule. This works in a similar manner to [media queries](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Media_Queries) except that instead of selectively applying CSS depending on a media feature like a resolution, screen width or aspect ratio, it selectively applies CSS depending on whether a CSS feature is supported, similar to `CSS.supports()`.

For example, we could rewrite our previous example to use `@supports`:

```css
@supports (grid-template-columns: subgrid) {
  main {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns: repeat(9, 1fr);
    grid-template-rows: repeat(4, minmax(100px, auto));
  }

  .item {
    display: grid;
    grid-column: 2 / 7;
    grid-row: 2 / 4;
    grid-template-columns: subgrid;
    grid-template-rows: repeat(3, 80px);
  }

  .subitem {
    grid-column: 3 / 6;
    grid-row: 1 / 3;
  }

}
```

> This at-rule block applies the CSS rule within only if the current browser supports both the `grid-template-columns: subgrid;` declaration. For a condition with a value to work, you need to include a complete declaration (not just a property name) and NOT include the semicolon on the end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This at-rule block applies the CSS rule within only if the current browser supports the `grid-template-columns: subgrid;` declaration. For a condition with a value to work, you need to include a complete declaration (not just a property name) and NOT include the semicolon on the end.
```

> `@supports` also has `AND`, `OR`, and `NOT` logic available — the other block applies the a regular grid layout if the subgrid option is not available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@supports` also has `AND`, `OR`, and `NOT` logic available — the other block applies the regular grid layout if the subgrid option is not available:
```

```css
@supports not (grid-template-columns: subgrid) {
  /* rules in here */
}
```

> This may look more convenient than the previous example — we can do all of our feature detection in CSS, no JavaScript required, and we can handle all the logic in a single CSS file, cutting down on HTTP requests. This is the preferred method of determining browser support for CSS features.

Reviewer: Sounds odd to say it may look more convenient, because I then expect you to say "but it isn't". Perhaps

```suggestion
This is more convenient than the previous example — we can do all of our feature detection in CSS, no JavaScript required, and we can handle all the logic in a single CSS file, cutting down on HTTP requests. For this reason it is the preferred method of determining browser support for CSS features.
```

> **Note:** The double `NOT` in the above example (`!!`) is a way to force a return value to become a "proper" boolean value, rather than a {{glossary("Truthy")}}/{{glossary("Falsy")}} value that may skew the results.

Bear in mind though that some features, however, are known to be undetectable — see Modernizr's list of [Undetectables](https://github.com/Modernizr/Modernizr/wiki/Undetectables) from 2016.

#### matchMedia

> 

Reviewer: Further down it says "As an example, our [Snapshot](https://github.com/chrisdavidmills/snapshot)" - should stuff like this live in private repositories? Just a question - not blocking this set of changes.

> 

Author: i definitely believe the rest of the page needs to be revisited. And thought the same thing about snapshot when I saw it, but didn't want to include it in this PR, because this half day edit was supposed to be a drive by change of one link :|

> 

Reviewer: Fair enough!

4. Now edit your opening `<html>` tag, so that it looks like this:

   ```html
   <html lang="en-us" class="no-js">…</html>
   ```

At this point, try loading your page, and you'll get an idea of how Modernizr works for CSS features. If you look at the DOM inspector of your browser's developer tools, you'll see that Modernizr has updated your `<html>` `class` value like so:

```html
<html
  class="js no-htmlimports no-proximity sizes no-flash transferables applicationcache blobconstructor blob-constructor no-contextmenu (and loads of more values)">…</html>
```

It now contains a large number of classes that indicate the support status of different technology features. As an example, if the browser didn't support grid at all, `<html>` would be given a class name of `no-cssgrid`. If you search through the class list, you'll also see others relating to grid, like:

- `cssgridlegacy` or `no-cssgridlegacy` depending on whether a legacy version of grid is or is not supported.

> > **Note:** You can find a list of what most of the class names mean — see [Features detected by Modernizr](https://modernizr.com/docs#features). Unfortunately,

Reviewer: Dangling "Unfortunately" at end

Author: ah, good catch. it was meant for the next line. Fixed.

> Modernizr does not test for support of some new CSS features like container queries, cascade layers, or subgrid. If it did, we would update our @supports example in the following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modernizr does not test for support of some new CSS features like container queries, cascade layers, or subgrid. If it did, we would update our `@supports` example in the following way:
```
